     1	Statistical
     2	methods are
     3	used in almost every
     4	discipline, including agriculture, astronomy,
     5	biology, business, communications, economics,
     6	        education, electronics, geology, health sciences, and many other fields of science and engineering,
     7	    and can aid us in several ways. Modern applications of statistical techniques include statistical communication theory and
     8	        signal processing, information theory, network security and denial-of-service problems, clinical trials, artificial and biological
     9	intelligence, quality control of manufactured items, software reliability, and survival analysis. The first of these is to
    10	        assist us in designing experiments and surveys. We desire our experiment to yield adequate answers to the questions that
    11	prompted the experiment or survey. We would like the answers to have good precision without involving a lot of
    12	        expenditure. Statistically designed experiments facilitate the development of robust products that are insensitive to changes
    13	in the environment and internal component variation. Another way that statistics assists us is in organizing, describing,
    14	summarizing, and displaying experimental data. This is termed descriptive statistics. Many of the descriptive statistics
    15	methods presented in this chapter are also part of the general area known as exploratory data analysis (EDA). A third use of
    16	
    17	
    18	statistics is in drawing inferences and making decisions based on data. For example, scientists may collect experimental
    19	data to prove or disprove an intuitive conjecture or hypothesis. Through the proper use of statistics, we can conclude
    20	whether the hypothesis is valid or not. In the process of solving a real-life problem using statistics, the following three basic
    21	steps may be identified. First, consistent with the objective of the problem, we identify the model using the appropriate
    22	statistical method. Then, we justify the applicability of the selected model to fulfill the aim of our problem. Last, we
    23	properly apply the related model to analyze the data and make the necessary decisions, which results in answering the
    24	question of our problem with minimum risk. Starting with Chapter 2, we will study the necessary background material to
    25	proceed with the development of statistical methods for solving real-world problems.
